Add a DPP intro in amdgpu_kernel_optimization_guide.md (#598)
nod-ai/shark-ai: docs/amdgpu_kernel_optimization_guide.md

tremendous number of combinations of VALU instructions and DPP. To solve that, `rocdl.update.dpp`
and `amdgpu.dpp` are designed to be a wrapper of `v_mov_b32_dpp` instruction. And it depends
on LLVM compiler to fuse it with the subsequent VALU instruction **with best efforts**.

For example, `v_mov_b32_dpp` + `v_add_f32_e32` might be fused into `v_add_f32_dpp`.

There are plenty of constraints stopping an instruction from being merged.
For example, if either the `bank_mask` or the `row_mask` is not `0xf`, it can't be fused.
You can check the [GCNDPPCombine::combineDPPMov](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/ab51eccf88f5321e7c60591c5546b254b6afab99/llvm/lib/Target/AMDGPU/GCNDPPCombine.cpp#L522) function to see how it works.

### Comparison

To summarize, there's no free lunch: instruction's expressivity comes at the expense of performance.

The relative performance of cross-lane instructions is as follows:

DPP > `ds_swizzle` >= `ds_permute` > `ds_bpermute`

while the generality ranking is the reverse:

DPP < `ds_swizzle` < `ds_permute` < `ds_bpermute`

This table presents the approximate instruction latency, collected experimentally

> on Fused Softmax kernel with [rocprofv2](https://github.com/ROCm/rocprofiler?tab=readme-ov-file#plugin-support) on MI300 GPU:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on Fused Softmax kernel with [rocprofv2](https://github.com/ROCm/rocprofiler?tab=readme-ov-file#plugin-support) on the MI300 GPU:
```

DPP is a 32-bit instruction modifier appended to the normal VALU instructions. It
allows VALU instructions to access data in neighboring lanes directly, which means
it doesn't need LDS hardware anymore, so no `s_waitcnt` instructions are required.

Unfortunately, it also supported limited patterns like `ds_swizzle`. And there are
some instructions that can't be modified by DPP.

The instruction syntax:
```nasm
; Normal inst
v_add_f32

; Inst modified by dpp
v_add_f32_dpp
```

It's worth mentioning that DPP has different names and syntaxes on different architectures.
- CDNA: DPP
- RDNA: DPP8/DPP16

For details, please check [MI300 ISA Reference Guide](https://www.amd.com/content/dam/amd/en/documents/instinct-tech-docs/instruction-set-architectures/amd-instinct-mi300-cdna3-instruction-set-architecture.pdf) and
[RDNA3 ISA Reference Guide](https://www.amd.com/content/dam/amd/en/documents/radeon-tech-docs/instruction-set-architectures/rdna3-shader-instruction-set-architecture-feb-2023_0.pdf)

### How to use them in MLIR

Each instruction has its corresponding Op in MLIR(except `ds_permute`):
- `ds_bpermute`: `rocdl.ds_bpermute`
- `ds_swizzle`: `rocdl.ds_swizzle`

> - DPP: `rocdl.update.dpp`, `amdgpu.dpp`(a slim wrapper of `rocdl.update.dpp` with more comprehensive user interface)

Author: The main difference is `amdgpu.dpp` use some enums to replace the magic numbers representing DppCtrl.

> - DPP: `rocdl.update.dpp`, `amdgpu.dpp`(a slim wrapper of `rocdl.update.dpp` with more comprehensive user interface)

Author: Added something to explain this.

The first 2 are straightforward, while DPP follows a different fashion.

Since DPP is an instruction modifier instead of an instruction itself, there are
tremendous number of combinations of VALU instructions and DPP. To solve that, `rocdl.update.dpp`
and `amdgpu.dpp` are designed to be a wrapper of `v_mov_b32_dpp` instruction. And it depends
on LLVM compiler to fuse it with the subsequent VALU instruction **with best efforts**.

For example, `v_mov_b32_dpp` + `v_add_f32_e32` might be fused into `v_add_f32_dpp`.

There are plenty of constraints stopping an instruction from being merged.
For example, if either the `bank_mask` or the `row_mask` is not `0xf`, it can't be fused.

> You can check the [GCNDPPCombine::combineDPPMov](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/llvmorg-19.1.3/llvm/lib/Target/AMDGPU/GCNDPPCombine.cpp#L522) function to see how it works.

Reviewer: Use permalinks for GitHub links that point to specific files / line numbers

### Comparison

> To summarize, there's no free lunch. You can't have both performance and generality
> at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize, there's no free lunch: instruction's expressivity comes at the expense of performance.
```

> The performance ranking is like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relative performance of cross-lane instructions is as follows:
```

> DPP > `ds_swizzle` >= `ds_permute`/`ds_bpermute`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DPP > `ds_swizzle` >= `ds_permute` > `ds_bpermute`
```

Reviewer: permute should be faster than bpermute

> while the generality ranking is the opposite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while the generality ranking is the reverse:
```

> DPP < `ds_swizzle` < `ds_permute`/`ds_bpermute`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DPP < `ds_swizzle` < ds_bpermute` < `ds_permute`
```
bpermute is easier to use than permute

> This table summarized some useful facts. The latency data is collected from an experiment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table presents the approximate instruction latency, collected experimentally
```

> on Fused Softmax kernel with [rocprofv2](https://github.com/ROCm/rocprofiler?tab=readme-ov-file#plugin-support):

Reviewer: Also mention the hardware. I assume this is on mi300?

Author: Yes

| Instructions           | MLIR Op                      | Hardware     | latency/#cycles |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------ | --------------- |
| ds_permute/ds_bpermute | rocdl.ds_bpermute            | LDS hardware | ~50*            |
| ds_swizzle             | rocdl.ds_swizzle             | LDS hardware | ~50*            |
| DPP                    | rocdl.update.dpp, amdgpu.dpp | VALU         | 4~12            |

> *: For ds_permute/ds_bpermute and ds_swizzle, the latency includes the instruction itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `ds_permute`/`ds_bpermute` and `ds_swizzle`, the latency includes the instruction itself
```
